adding job commands page (#2844)
fishtown-analytics/docs.getdbt.com: website/docs/docs/deploy/job-commands.md

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/fail-dbtdeps.jpg" title="A job run with a failed dbt deps run step"/>

### Checkbox commands

For every job, you have the option to select the [Generate docs on run](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) or [Run on source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) checkboxes. These checkboxes enable you to generate project docs or enable source freshness automatically.

**Outcome** &mdash; During a job run, if this particular step fails, the job can still be successful if all subsequent steps are successful. 

### Command list

You can add or remove as many [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) as necessary for every job, however, you need to have at least one dbt command.
   
   * Use [selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) as a powerful way to select and execute portions of your project in a job run. If a selector doesn't match any models, the job run won't consider it a failure. For example, to run tests for one_specific_model, use the selector: `dbt test --select one_specific_model`
    

>    *  TO FLESH OUT - IF THE SELECTOR DOESN'T MATCH NODES, WILL IT BE CONSIDERED? CANCELLED? CAN YOU PROVIDE AN EXAMPLE? NEED MORE INFO

Author: @ernestoongaro i've flagged this section as one that needs more info pls.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/skipped-jobs.jpg" title="A job run with a failed run step and subsequent job failure"/>

## Job command failures

Job failures can mean different things for different commands. Here are some reasons why a job may fail:

1. **Failure at`dbt run`** &mdash; [`dbt run`](/reference/commands/run) executes compiled sql model files against the current target database. It will fail if there is an error in any of the built models. 
    - If a [`select`](/reference/node-selection/set-operators) matches multiple nodes and one of the nodes fails, then the job will have an exit code `1` and the subsequent command will fail. If you specified the [`—fail-fast`](/reference/global-configs#failing-fast) flag, then the first failure will stop the entire connection for any models that are in-progress.  
    - Tests on upstream resources prevent downstream resources from running and a failed test will skip them.

>     - TODO WHAT IS THE EXIST CODE FOR A PARTIAL FAILE?

Author: @ernestoongaro i've flagged this section as one that needs more info pls.

2. **Failure at `dbt test`** &mdash;  [`dbt test`](/reference/commands/test) runs tests defined on models, sources, snapshots, and seeds. A test can pass, fail, or warn depending on its [configuration](/reference/test-configs). Only an error stops the next step. 

> 3. **Failure at `dbt build`** &mdash; [`dbt build`](/reference/commands/build) runs models, tests, snapshots, and seeds. NEED MORE INFO ON THIS - what info do you want to convey? 

Author: @ernestoongaro i've flagged this section as one that needs more info pls.

---
title: "Job commands"
id: "job-commands"
description: "How to use dbt commands to set tasks for your dbt Cloud jobs."
---

> A dbt Cloud production job allows you to set up a system to run a dbt job and job commands on a schedule, rather than running dbt commands manually from the command line or [IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud). A job contains one or more commands, and when executed together, the outcomes of those commands will determine the job run status. A job run status will be either (successful, canceled or failed) and a command outcome can either be successful or failed. Each job allows you to:

Author: ```suggestion
A dbt Cloud production job allows you to set up a system to run a dbt job and job commands on a schedule, rather than running dbt commands manually from the command line or [IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud). A job consists of multiple commands, and their combined outcomes determine the job's run status, which can be successful, canceled, or failed. During a job run, each command outcome can either succeed or fail under the **Run steps** section.

Each job allows you to:
```

- Configure job commands
- View job run details, including timing, artifacts, and detailed run steps
- Access logs to view or help debug issues and historical invocations of dbt
- Set up notifications, and [more](/docs/deploy/deployments#dbt-cloud)!

## Job command types

Job commands are specific tasks executed by the job, and you can configure them seamlessly by either adding [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) or using the checkbox option in the **Commands** section. 

> When using configuring job commands, expect different outcomes when adding the command as a run step compared to selecting a checkbox.

Author: ```suggestion
When using configuring job commands, you can expect different outcomes when adding the command as a run step compared to selecting a checkbox.
```

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/job-commands.gif" title="Configuring checkbox and commands list"/>

### Built-in commands

> Every job invocation automatically includes [`dbt deps`](/reference/commands/deps) and `dbt build`, meaning you don't need to add it to the **Commands** list in your job settings. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Every job invocation automatically includes [`dbt deps`](/reference/commands/deps), meaning you don't need to add it to the **Commands** list in your job settings. 
```

> **Outcome** &mdash; During a job run, the commands are “chained” together. This means if `dbt run` fails, then the subsequent commands aren't executed a and the entire job fails with an "Error" job status.

Author: hey @ernestoongaro isn't it that if `dbt deps` or `dbt run` fails, they will get the same outcome with an errored job right? if so, i propose re-adding dbt deps since that's the command we're discussing and also applies to the screenshot example

```suggestion
**Outcome** &mdash; During a job run, the commands are “chained” together. This means if `dbt deps` or `dbt run` fails, then the subsequent commands aren't executed and the entire job fails with an "Error" job status.
```

Reviewer: The problem is dbt deps happens automatically, I thought it was a bad example because they didn't type the command

Author: oh ok, maybe i misunderstood but i thought that's what the 'built-in' commands clarification was. so built in commands = don't need to add or type it are:
- dbt deps
- dbt run
although i thought we had to type in dbt run?

Author: ok tried to keep the content more generic and focused on letting the user know that if there was a failure at any run step, the job would fail.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/fail-dbtdeps.jpg" title="A job run with a failed dbt deps run step"/>

### Checkbox commands

For every job, you have the option to select the [Generate docs on run](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) or [Run source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) checkboxes. These checkboxes enable you to generate project docs or enable source freshness automatically.

> **Outcome** &mdash; During a job run, if either "checkbox command" (source freshness or generate documnetation) fails, the job can still be successful if all subsequent steps are successful. 

Author: typo

```suggestion
**Outcome** &mdash; During a job run, if either "checkbox command" (source freshness or generate documentation) fails, the job can still be successful if all subsequent steps are successful. 
```

### Command list

You can add or remove as many [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) as necessary for every job, however, you need to have at least one dbt command. 

> The commands that can be run in dbt Cloud are limited to the ones not-marked CLI-only. 

Author: sugg moving the tip content up here and it also replaces duplicate sentence about 'cli only limited to dbt cloud'

```suggestion
Commands labeled as "CLI only" in the [dbt Command reference doc](/reference/dbt-commands) are meant for [CLI](/docs/get-started/about-the-cli) use only. In dbt Cloud, you can only run commands that _aren't labeled_ "CLI only".

```

> :::tip Tip &mdash; CLI only commands 

Author: ```suggestion
:::tip Using selectors
```

> There are specific commands marked `CLI Only in the [dbt commands documentation](/reference/dbt-commands) that are not avialable in dbt Cloud. These commands are either done for you, or simply do not apply. 

Author: i'm not sure this is a tip, it think the selectors content is more of a "tip" - what do you think?
```suggestion
Use [selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) as a powerful way to select and execute portions of your project in a job run. If a selector doesn't match any models, the job run won't consider it a failure. For example, to run tests for one_specific_model, use the selector: `dbt test --select one_specific_model`
```

:::
   

>    * Use [selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) as a powerful way to select and execute portions of your project in a job run. If a selector doesn't match any models, the job run won't consider it a failure. For example, to run tests for one_specific_model, use the selector: `dbt test --select one_specific_model`

Author: removing this as i'm suggesting it become a tip

```suggestion

```

---
title: "Job commands"
id: "job-commands"
description: "How to use dbt commands to set tasks for your dbt Cloud jobs."
---

A dbt Cloud production job allows you to set up a system to run a dbt job and job commands on a schedule, rather than running dbt commands manually from the command line or [IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud). Each job allows you to:

- Configure job commands
- View job run details, including timing, artifacts, and detailed run steps
- Access logs to view or help debug issues and historical invocations of dbt
- Set up notifications, and [more](/docs/deploy/deployments#dbt-cloud)!

## Job command types

Job commands are specific tasks executed by the job, and you can configure them seamlessly by either adding [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) or using the checkbox option in the **Commands** section. 

When using configuring job commands, you can expect different outcomes when adding the command as a run step compared to selecting a checkbox.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/job-commands.gif" title="Configuring checkbox and commands list"/>

### Built-in commands

> Every job invocation includes [`dbt deps`](/reference/commands/deps), meaning you don't need to add it to the **Commands** list in your job settings. `dbt deps` pulls the most recent version of the dependencies listed in your `packages.yml` from git. 

Author: ```suggestion
Every job invocation automatically includes [`dbt deps`](/reference/commands/deps), meaning you don't need to add it to the **Commands** list in your job settings. `dbt deps` pulls the most recent version of the dependencies listed in your `packages.yml` from git. 
```

## Job command failures

Job command failures can mean different things for different commands. Here are some reasons why a job command may fail:

- **Failure at`dbt run`** &mdash; [`dbt run`](/reference/commands/run) executes compiled sql model files against the current target database. It will fail if there is an error in any of the built models. Tests on upstream resources prevent downstream resources from running and a failed test will skip them.
    
- **Failure at `dbt test`** &mdash;  [`dbt test`](/reference/commands/test) runs tests defined on models, sources, snapshots, and seeds. A test can pass, fail, or warn depending on its [severity](reference/resource-configs/severity). Only an error stops the next step, unless you set [warnings as errors](/reference/global-configs#warnings-as-errors)

- **Failure at `dbt build`** &mdash; [`dbt build`](/reference/commands/build) runs models, tests, snapshots, and seeds. This command is a series of commands in itself, partial failures. For example, if `dbt seed` is successfull, but `dbt run` isn't, then it's treated as a failure with an Exit code 1.

> ## About selectors

Author: @ernestoongaro i'm not clear what this ## about selectors section is about? it looks like it's a continuation of command failures? if so, i think enveloping this H2 into the job command failures section is probably a more logical flow - what do you think?

For example:

## Job command failures

Job command failures can mean different things for different commands. Here are some reasons why a job command may fail:

- **Failure at`dbt run`** &mdash; [`dbt run`](/reference/commands/run) executes compiled sql model files against the current target database. It will fail if there is an error in any of the built models. Tests on upstream resources prevent downstream resources from running and a failed test will skip them.

- **Failure at `dbt test`** &mdash;  [`dbt test`](/reference/commands/test) runs tests defined on models, sources, snapshots, and seeds. A test can pass, fail, or warn depending on its [severity](reference/resource-configs/severity). Only an error stops the next step, unless you set [warnings as errors](/reference/global-configs#warnings-as-errors)

- **Failure at `dbt build`** &mdash; [`dbt build`](/reference/commands/build) runs models, tests, snapshots, and seeds. This command is a series of commands in itself, partial failures. For example, if `dbt seed` is successfull, but `dbt run` isn't, then it's treated as a failure with an Exit code 1.

- **Selector failures**
   - If a [`select`](/reference/node-selection/set-operators) matches multiple nodes and one of the nodes fails, then the job will have an exit code `1` and the subsequent command will fail. If you specified the [`—fail-fast`](/reference/global-configs#failing-fast) flag, then the first failure will stop the entire connection for any models that are in progress. 

   - If a selector does not match any nodes, it is not constituted as a failure

Reviewer: Ok I see what you mean! Make sense

Each job allows you to:

- Configure job commands
- View job run details, including timing, artifacts, and detailed run steps
- Access logs to view or help debug issues and historical invocations of dbt
- Set up notifications, and [more](/docs/deploy/deployments#dbt-cloud)!

## Job command types

Job commands are specific tasks executed by the job, and you can configure them seamlessly by either adding [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) or using the checkbox option in the **Commands** section. 

During a job run, the commands are "chained" together, and you can expect different outcomes when adding the command as a run step compared to selecting a checkbox.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/job-commands.gif" title="Configuring checkbox and commands list"/>

### Built-in commands

> Every job invocation automatically includes [`dbt deps`](/reference/commands/deps), meaning you don't need to add it to the **Commands** list in your job settings. 

Reviewer 2: I think it might also be worth calling out that every job execution will include a step to clone your repo and connect to your warehouse? while not technically commands, they are job steps people will see that could use even a quick explanation

> **Job outcome** &mdash; During a job run, the commands are "chained" together.  This means if one of the run steps in the chain fails, then the next commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails with an "Error" job status.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**Job outcome** &mdash; During a job run, the built-in commands are "chained" together.  This means if one of the run steps in the chain fails, then the next commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails with an "Error" job status.
```

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/fail-dbtdeps.jpg" title="A failed job that had an error during the dbt deps run step."/>

### Checkbox commands

For every job, you have the option to select the [Generate docs on run](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) or [Run source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) checkboxes. These checkboxes enable you to generate project docs or enable source freshness automatically.

> **Job outcome**  &mdash; During a job run, if either "checkbox command" (source freshness or generate documentation) fails, the job can still be successful if all subsequent steps are successful. 

Reviewer 2: This likely needs to be split out to describe the behavior for source freshness and docs, mostly because of the sequencing:

- checkbox source freshness: runs before manual commands, non blocking of subsequent commands regardless of status
- checkbox docs: runs _after_ manually specified commands, non blocking of those commands as a result of the timing. I am fairly sure that a failure on the docs generate step will produce a job status of failure as well, so that's worth clarifying

Author: thanks so much Dave, i've asked in dbt help and tagged you too! the docs say it wont fail so i don't know!

(`dbt run --select state:modified+ --full-refresh --fail-fast`)
then the subsequent commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails. The failed job returns a non-zero [exit code](/reference/exit-codes) and "Error" job status:

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/skipped-jobs.jpg" title="A failed job run that had an error during a run step"/>

## Job command failures

Job command failures can mean different things for different commands. Here are some reasons why a job command may fail:

- **Failure at`dbt run`** &mdash; [`dbt run`](/reference/commands/run) executes compiled SQL model files against the current target database. It will fail if there is an error in any of the built models. Tests on upstream resources prevent downstream resources from running and a failed test will skip them.

- **Failure at `dbt test`** &mdash;  [`dbt test`](/reference/commands/test) runs tests defined on models, sources, snapshots, and seeds. A test can pass, fail, or warn depending on its [severity](reference/resource-configs/severity). Unless you set [warnings as errors](/reference/global-configs#warnings-as-errors), only an error stops the next step. 

> - **Failure at `dbt build`** &mdash; [`dbt build`](/reference/commands/build) runs models, tests, snapshots, and seeds. This command is a series of commands in itself, partial failures. For example, if `dbt seed` is successful, but `dbt run` isn't, then it's treated as a failure with an Exit code 1.

Reviewer 2: not sure i wou'd classify this as a superset of commands -- it's one command that properly sequences resources in DAG order (i.e. you wouldn't see a `dbt seed` and a `dbt run` anywhere in the logs.

"This command runs all resources in the DAG-specified order, and any failure on any upstream resource will cause a failure with an exit code 1 and all downstream resources will be skipped." or something

---
title: "Job commands"
id: "job-commands"
description: "How to use dbt commands to set tasks for your dbt Cloud jobs."
---

> A dbt Cloud production job allows you to set up a system to run a dbt job and job commands on a schedule, rather than running dbt commands manually from the command line or [IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud). A job consists of multiple commands, and their combined outcomes determine the job's run status, which can be successful, canceled, or failed. During a job run, each command outcome can either succeed or fail under the **Run steps** section.

Reviewer 3: Can we add a little clarity around that last sentence? "fail or run under the **Run steps** section". Does that mean it's a log of why it failed or is it a status page?

Author: rephrased:

>A dbt Cloud production job allows you to set up a system to run a dbt job and job commands on a schedule, rather than running dbt commands manually from the command line or [IDE](/docs/get-started/develop-in-the-cloud). A job consists of commands that are "chained" together and executed as run steps. Each run step can succeed or fail, which may determine the job's run status (Success, Cancel, or Error).

Each job allows you to:

- Configure job commands
- View job run details, including timing, artifacts, and detailed run steps
- Access logs to view or help debug issues and historical invocations of dbt
- Set up notifications, and [more](/docs/deploy/deployments#dbt-cloud)!

## Job command types

Job commands are specific tasks executed by the job, and you can configure them seamlessly by either adding [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) or using the checkbox option in the **Commands** section. 

> During a job run, the commands are "chained" together, and you can expect different outcomes when adding the command as a run step compared to selecting a checkbox.

Reviewer 3: Unless what's being said here is obvious to our customers, this sentence feels a little vague. As an outsider reading about this feature, I'm not sure what it's trying to express.

Author: gotcha! we're trying to let the user know that commands are linked and there are diff outcomes depending on the type of command you use (checkbox, manually adding commands). rephrased here:

> During a job run, the commands are "chained" together and executed as run steps. When you add a dbt command in the **Commands** section, you can expect different outcomes compared to the checkbox option.

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/job-commands.gif" title="Configuring checkbox and commands list"/>

### Built-in commands

Every job invocation automatically includes the [`dbt deps`](/reference/commands/deps) command, meaning you don't need to add it to the **Commands** list in your job settings.  You will also notice every job will include a run step to reclone your repository and connect to your data platform, which can affect your job status if these run steps aren't successful.

**Job outcome** &mdash; During a job run, the built-in commands are "chained" together.  This means if one of the run steps in the chain fails, then the next commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails with an "Error" job status.

<Lightbox src="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/fail-dbtdeps.jpg" title="A failed job that had an error during the dbt deps run step."/>

### Checkbox commands

> For every job, you have the option to select the [Generate docs on run](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) or [Run source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) checkboxes. These checkboxes enable you to generate project docs or enable source freshness automatically.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For every job, you have the option to select the [Generate docs on run](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) or [Run source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) checkboxes, enabling you to run the commands automatically. 
```

> **Job outcome Generate docs on run checkbox** &mdash; dbt Cloud executes the checkbox, which uses the `dbt docs generate` command, _after_ the listed commands. If that particular run step in your job fails, the job can still succeed if all subsequent run steps are successful. Read [Build and view your docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) for more info.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Job outcome Generate docs on run checkbox** &mdash; dbt Cloud executes the `dbt docs generate` command, _after_ the listed commands. If that particular run step in your job fails, the job can still succeed if all subsequent run steps are successful. Read [Build and view your docs](/docs/collaborate/build-and-view-your-docs) for more info.
```

> **Job outcome Source freshness checkbox** &mdash; dbt Cloud executes the checkbox, which uses the `dbt source freshness` command, as the first run step in your job. If that particular run step in your jobs fails, the job can still succeed if all subsequent run steps are successful. Read [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) for more info.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Job outcome Source freshness checkbox** &mdash; dbt Cloud executes the `dbt source freshness` command as the first run step in your job. If that particular run step in your job fails, the job can still succeed if all subsequent run steps are successful. Read [Source freshness](/docs/deploy/source-freshness) for more info.
```

### Command list

> You can add or remove as many [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) as necessary for every job, however, you need to have at least one dbt command. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
You can add or remove as many [dbt commands](/reference/dbt-commands) as necessary for every job. However, you need to have at least one dbt command. 
```

> Commands labeled as "CLI only" in the [dbt Command reference doc](/reference/dbt-commands) are meant for [CLI](/docs/get-started/about-the-cli)-use only. In dbt Cloud, you can only run commands that _aren't labeled_ "CLI only".

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Commands labeled as "CLI only" in the [dbt Command reference doc](/reference/dbt-commands) are meant for use in dbt Core's [CLI](/docs/get-started/about-the-cli) only and are not available in dbt Cloud.
```

:::tip Using selectors

> Use [selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) as a powerful way to select and execute portions of your project in a job run. If a selector doesn't match any models, the job run won't consider it a failure. For example, to run tests for one_specific_model, use the selector: `dbt test --select one_specific_model`

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Use [selectors](/reference/node-selection/syntax) as a powerful way to select and execute portions of your project in a job run. For example, to run tests for one_specific_model, use the selector: `dbt test --select one_specific_model`. The job will still run if a selector doesn't match any models. 
```

:::
   
    

> **Job outcome**  &mdash;  During a job run, the commands are “chained” together. This means if one of the run steps in the chain fails, then the next ones aren't executed. For example, if the 5th run step fails:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
**Job outcome**  &mdash;  During a job run, the commands are “chained” together. If one of the run steps in the chain fails, then the subsequent steps aren't executed, and the job will fail. For example, if the 5th run step fails:
```

Reviewer 3: Is there supposed to be an example in here where this is the fifth step?

Author: yes it's supposed to be tied to the screenshot but i realized it's not explicit. new wording now!

Author: ok reworded:

>In the following example image, the first four run steps are successful. However, if the fifth run step (`dbt run --select state:modified+ --full-refresh --fail-fast`) fails, then the next run steps aren't executed, and the entire job fails. The failed job returns a non-zero [exit code](/reference/exit-codes) and "Error" job status:

(`dbt run --select state:modified+ --full-refresh --fail-fast`)
then the subsequent commands aren't executed, and the entire job fails. The failed job returns a non-zero [exit code](/reference/exit-codes) and "Error" job status:

<Lightbox src ="/img/docs/dbt-cloud/using-dbt-cloud/skipped-jobs.jpg" title="A failed job run that had an error during a run step"/>

## Job command failures

> Job command failures can mean different things for different commands. Here are some reasons why a job command may fail:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Job command failures can mean different things for different commands. Some common reasons why a job command may fail:
```
